A colonoscopy is a procedure that your doctor
may perform to examine the inner lining
of your large intestine, or colon.
A colonscopy helps your doctor
diagnose intestinal diseases
like colitis, colon polyps, or colon cancer.
Before the colonoscopy,
you will need to “prep” or clean your colon.
Colon prep is an important step
to make sure your doctor can see
the inside of your colon.
There are several methods of colon prep.
The most common involves drinking a cleansing solution.
Your doctor will prescribe the
the best method for you
and
give you detailed instructions.
The colonoscopy procedure
typically lasts 20 to 30 minutes
and you will be sedated.
You may feel some slight pressure
but you should not experience any pain.
To begin, you will be asked
to lie comfortably on your left side.
Your doctor may instruct you to
pull your knees into your chest.
Your doctor will then insert
a thin, flexible tube called a colonoscope
through your rectum into your colon.
The colonoscope has a light
and a small camera on the end
so your doctor can see the
inside of your colon.
Your doctor may also use the
colonoscope to expand your colon with air
or clean areas with water
to make the lining easier to see.
During the procedure,
the colonoscope can be used to collect
tissue samples called a biopsy
or to remove an abnormal growth,
such as a polyp or lesion.
After the procedure,
you will lie down until the sedation wears off.
You won't be able to drive for the rest of the day,
So plan to have someone take you home.
Your doctor will contact you with
the results of your colonoscopy.